---
title: "Nix Weekly Recap: 2024-02-10"
pubDate: "2024-02-10"
description: Weekly recap of the announcements and activity in the Nix community and on the NixPkgs package repository.
---

In the past week, the Nix community has witnessed a series of significant updates and contributions that have bolstered the ecosystem's growth and robustness. Leading the charge, @fricklerhandwerk presented a thorough report on the Nix maintainers' journey from April 2023 to January 2024. This period saw the successful merging of over 500 pull requests and the closing of more than 300 issues, a testament to the team's dedication to enhancing the CLI and flakes. Despite achievements, the report also highlights challenges such as the growing backlog of open issues and pull requests, pointing towards the need for system simplification and increased maintainer capacity. Future goals outlined in the report aim at fostering stability, addressing architectural challenges, and improving the maintenance process. [Read more about the Nix team report 2023-04 — 2024-01](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/nix-team-report-2023-04-2024-01). In a stride towards fostering community engagement, @mightyiam launched "Full Time Nix," the first-of-its-kind podcast centred around the Nix ecosystem, featuring @Infinisil in its inaugural episode. The podcast aims to delve deeper into the workings of Nix, offering listeners a platform to propose topics or volunteer as guests. [Discover more about Full Time Nix (podcast)](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/full-time-nix-podcast/39442).

The community has also seen tangible advancements in technical contributions. @SuperSandro2000 refined the nixos/nextcloud configuration, optimizing cron job executions in line with the Nextcloud documentation. Enhanced security and reliability in the openvswitch package were achieved by @adamcstephens, alongside important CVE-2023-3966 mitigation efforts. @rafaelrc7's work on the Starsector package ensures a smoother upgrade path, exemplifying the meticulous issue resolution characteristic of the community. Another highlight is @flandweber's introduction of `gittuf` at version 0.3.0, offering a more secure git repository framework. The automatic update of libgit2 to version 1.7.2 includes several improvements, underscoring the ongoing efforts to maintain a robust tooling stack. In the arena of software security and performance, updates to various packages, such as Zydis, Gradle, and libxml2, reflect the community's commitment to software excellence. For example, a security update to libxml2 by @jtojnar addressed CVE-2023-25062, emphasizing the priority given to safeguarding the community's infrastructure. Meanwhile, @Hayajiro's identification of an undisclosed dependency in Inkcut showcases the thoroughness and dedication within the Nix ecosystem to ensure software reliability. Alongside these technical contributions, @RaitoBezarius's initiative, “This Week in NixOS,” is set to enhance community connectivity by offering a weekly digest of key updates. [Explore Call for testing: "This Week in NixOS"](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/call-for-testing-this-week-in-nixos/39465). These efforts collectively underline the vibrancy of the Nix community, with each contribution pushing the envelope further in software management, deployment practices, and community engagement.