---
title: "Nix Weekly Recap: 2024-02-10"
pubDate: "2024-02-10"
description: Weekly recap of the announcements and activity in the Nix community and on the NixPkgs package repository.
---

This week in the Nix community has been bustling with notable announcements and achievements, each contributing to the ecosystem's ongoing evolution and growth. fricklerhandwerk shared the much-anticipated [Nix team report for April 2023 to January 2024](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/nix-team-report-2023-04-2024-01/39525), highlighting the diligent efforts and progress made by the Nix maintainers team over the past nine months. The report proudly recaps the team's roadmap on the CLI and flakes stabilization, integrating more than 500 pull requests from 128 contributors. Despite facing challenges such as limited maintainer capacity and system complexity, the team has made significant strides towards improving the code, reducing experimental features, and enhancing contributor experience. Looking forward, the focus remains on concluding ongoing projects and further refining the contribution process to encourage broader community involvement. In a lighter vein, mightyiam introduced [Full Time Nix](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/full-time-nix-podcast/39442), the first podcast entirely dedicated to the Nix ecosystem. Featuring Infinisil as its first guest, the podcast aims to facilitate in-depth conversations with the skilled individuals making strides in the Nix community. This platform not only serves as an educational resource but also an invitation for greater collaboration and idea sharing within the community. Adding to the community's collaborative efforts, RaitoBezarius announced a new weekly digest, [This Week in NixOS](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/call-for-testing-this-week-in-nixos/39465). Delivered via a Matrix channel, this initiative is designed to keep members abreast of crucial developments, updates, and discussions within the NixOS ecosystem. By providing detailed sections on an array of topics, from RFCs to project highlights, the digest fills a vital communication gap, inviting contributions and feedback to enhance its value. On the governance front, ryantm celebrated the [addition of Ryan Hendrickson to the Moderation Team](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/welcome-ryan-hendrickson-to-the-moderation-team/39460). With his robust background as a Nixpkgs committer and maintainer of PureScript, Ryan is set to play an instrumental role in upholding the community's standards and fostering an inclusive environment. Lastly, yunfachi unveiled [Umport: Automatic Import of Modules](https://discourse.nixos.org/t/umport-automatic-import-of-modules/39455), a feature designed to simplify Nix configurations through automated import of modules. By addressing the challenges associated with managing numerous modules or packages, this feature stands as a testament to the community's dedication to enhancing usability and efficiency within the Nix ecosystem. Each of these announcements marks an essential step forward in the growth and strengthening of the Nix community. Through collective efforts, innovation, and a shared commitment to improvement, the ecosystem continues to evolve, offering an ever-more robust, user-friendly, and inclusive platform for both current and future Nix enthusiasts.

In a notable development in the Nix community, the Raspberry Pi EEPROM package received an update, as announced by [Luflosi](https://github.com/Luflosi). Moving from version 2023.12.06-2712 to 2024.01.05-2712, this upgrade incorporates the latest changes as detailed in the [release notes on GitHub](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/283287). The testing process, meticulously conducted on x86_64-linux and aarch64-linux platforms, ensures the update's reliability across these architectures. While specific configurations and testing details for alternate platforms and core functionalities remain out of scope, the thorough compilation and functionality checks underline the community's commitment to stability and performance. Simultaneously, a significant SDL2 version leap was orchestrated by [trofi](https://github.com/trofi), upgrading from 2.28.5 to 2.30.0. The [announcement](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/286052) points contributors to the GitHub release page for comprehensive insights into the changes introduced. This update stresses the importance of linking changelogs or providing detailed descriptions for package updates, facilitating easier assessment of potential breaking changes by maintainers. Another critical intervention by [trofi](https://github.com/trofi) addressed a build failure in `openboardview` due to `gcc-13`, specifically relating to an issue with `FZFile.h`. The [pull request](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/287814) highlights the problem encountered on Hydra but leaves audiences in anticipation regarding the particulars of the fix implemented. It subtly reminds contributors of the best practices in documentation for package updates, emphasizing the value of changelogs and clear package descriptions. On the security front, [adamcstephens](https://github.com/adamcstephens) announced crucial updates for openvswitch, enhancing versions from 3.1.1 to 3.1.4 for its regular release and from 2.17.8 to 2.17.9 for the LTS backport version. These updates address the CVE-2023-3966 vulnerability, reflecting the Nix community's proactive stance on security ([see the pull request here](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/287368)). By incorporating improvements like parallel tests and rechecks of failures, these updates not only bolster security but also efficiency, marking a stride towards optimizing performance across versions. The openness to backporting these enhancements to stable versions underscores the community's dedication to delivering a resilient and efficient ecosystem. These developments signify a week full of upgrades, fixes, and security enhancements in the Nix community, underscoring the concerted efforts of contributors to foster a robust, secure, and high-performing ecosystem.
